.Dd June 11, 2024
.Dt rsz 1
.Os Debian
.Sh NAME
.Nm rsz
.Nd resizes terminal window.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ar new-width Op new-height
.br
.Nm
.Ar sm|md|lg
.br
.Nm
.Ar w|width columns Op h|height rows
.br
.Nm
.Ar h|height rows Op w|width columns
.br
.Nm
.Ar w+|width+ add_columns
.br
.Nm
.Ar w-|width- remove_columns
.br
.Nm
.Ar h+|height+ add_rows
.br
.Nm
.Ar h-|height- remove_rows
.br
.Nm
.Ar --help|--version
.br
.Nm
.Ar -h|-v
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Resize the terminal window. The width and height can be set to an explicit value
or relatively by increasing or decreasing the current width(terminal columns) or
height(terminal rows) by a certain amount. Passing a single number as an
argument sets the width and passing 2 number arguments sets the width and height
respectively.
.Sh OPERANDS, FLAGS, AND OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It h|height
Set the height (rows) of the terminal window. Expects positive integer.
.It h+|height+
Increase the height (rows) of the terminal window by a specified amount. Expects
positive integer.
.It h-|height-
Decrease the height (rows) of the terminal window by a specified amount.
Expects positive integer.
.It w|width
Set the width (columns) of the terminal window. Expects positive integer.
.It w+|width+
Increase the width (columns) of the terminal window by a specified amount.
Expects positive integer.
.It w-|width-
Decrease the width (columns) of the terminal window by a specified amount.
Expects positive integer.
.It -h|--help
Print help message to stdout. This command will override all other commands if
passed unless version flag or option is encountered first while parsing arguments.
.It -v|--version
Print script version to stdout. This command will override all other commands if
passed unless help flag or option is encountered while parsing arguments first.
.El
.Sh USAGE
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$rsz sm # sets terminal window to default small size of 80 columns by 20 rows
$rsz md # sets terminal window to default medium size of 90 columns by 20 rows
$rsz lg # sets terminal window to default large size of 100 columns by 20 rows

$rsz 100 20 # sets terminal window width to 100 columns and height to 20 rows
$rsz 100 # sets terminal window width to 100 columns

$rsz h 20 # sets terminal window height to 20 rows
$rsz h+ 20 # increases terminal window height by 20 rows
$rsz h- 20 # decrease terminal window height by 20 rows
# Above is the shorthand height syntax, but 'h' can be substituted with "height"
# and the behavior will be identical

$rsz w 100 # sets terminal window width to 100 columns
$rsz w+ 100 # increases terminal window width by 100 columns
$rsz w- 100 # decrease terminal window width by 100 columns
# Above is the shorthand height syntax, but 'h' can be substituted with "height"
# and the behavior will be identical

$rsz --help # print help text to stdout
$rsz --version # print script version to stdout
.Ed
